# New York Citi Bike Analysis
## Des Moines, IA Proposal
Based on the Citi Bike data for New York City in August 2019, the following summary and Tableau visualizations suggest that a bike-sharing company can be profitable in Des Moines, IA. The focus of this analysis is to determine how the population of Des Moines compares to the population of New York City, and whether the population affects the number of people who will use the bike-sharing program.
[link to dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/views/NY_CitiBike_15794192179810/Bikesharing?:display_count=y&publish=yes&:origin=viz_share_link "link to dashboard")

### Population Breakdown
According to the July 1, 2018 estimate from the Census, New York City had 20.9% people under 18 and 14.1% people 65 and over (https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/newyorkcitynewyork/PST045219). This suggests that 65% of the population is 18-64. Looking at the August 2019 Citi Bike Data for the Average Trip Duration, with the exception of those born in 1969, the length of the trips increased as the age of the riders decreased. It is more likely that those 18-64 will have the funds and need to use the bike-sharing service. The July 1, 2018 Census information for Des Moines, IA showed that Des Moines had a similar breakdown with 24.5% under 18 and 11.7% 65 and over (https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/desmoinescityiowa). This means that 63.8% of the population in Des Moines is 18-64 and more likely to utilize a bike-sharing service.

### Comparing the Total Populations
The August 2019 Citi Bike data showed that 1,900,359 riders were subscribers, which is 81.1% of the users. According to the Citi Bike website, you can become an annual member or buy a short-term pass (https://www.citibikenyc.com/how-it-works). In the data provided, subscribers are members, and customers are those using short-term passes. Memberships are geared towards New York City and Jersey City residents. This suggests that 81.1% of the Citi Bike users are residents of the city.

The total population of New York City is estimated at 8,398,748. So, in August 2019, 22.6% of the residents were possibly subscribers. The population of Des Moines is much lower than New York City, at 216,853. However, if 22.6% of the residents were to buy memberships, this suggests 49,066 subscribers for Des Moines. This number could then increase as others learn how easy the service is to use.

### Top Starting and Ending Locations are Centralized
Looking at the maps of the top starting and ending locations in August 2019, you can see that while other burroughs do use the service, the most popular starting and ending places are in Manhattan. This makes sense because the majority of business and tourism are in the Manhattan area. Both local commuters as well as tourists would be able to use the service to get to work or to travel to different locations of interest.

Catch Des Moines, the tourism website for the city, has several maps with trails, dining, shopping and other sights of interest all located in the downtown area (https://www.catchdesmoines.com/things-to-do/). There are more than 800 miles of trail systems in the Greater Des Moines area. There is a famous Farmers' Market on Saturdays from May through October, and an indoor Winter Market on certain weekends in November and December, that has locally grown produce and locally raised meat as well as arts and crafts and live music. The market also offers free bicycle parking through the Des Moines Street Collective (https://www.dsmpartnership.com/desmoinesfarmersmarket/directions-parking).

### Peak Hours in August
In August 2019, the number of riders is close to 100,000 starting at 7am and stays above 100,000 through 8pm. The heaviest use is from 8-10am, and 4-8pm. The higher number of users around the commuting hours is consistent with the number of locals using the service, as they would likely be using the bicycles to go to or from work. The midday hours suggest tourists or those available. The evening hours also go along with activities such as dining, shopping or events.

Catch Des Moines suggests that there are a number of dining options in the downtown area, as well as shopping and outdoor concerts. While parks and trails would likely to be used during the midday hours, the dining and shopping options help the possibility of evening riders as well.

### Des Moines Bike-sharing
Based on the similarity in the age breakdown between Des Moines and New York City, I believe that a bike-sharing program would be successful in Des Moines. While the numbers may be lower than in NYC, the percentages could start out similarly and then grow because the younger generations are very concerned with cleaner transportation and this is definitely a service that promotes going green and preventing carbon emissions.